# 离散数学公式表

1. Identity Laws：$p \land T \equiv p$，$p \lor F \equiv p$
2. Domination Laws：$p \lor T \equiv T$, $p \land F \equiv F$
3. Idempotent Laws: $p \lor p \equiv p$, $p \and p \equiv p$
4. Double negation Laws：$\neg (\neg p) = p$
5. Commutative Laws：$p \lor q \equiv q \lor p$，$p \land q \equiv q \land p$
6. Associative Laws: $(p \or q) \lor r \equiv p \or (q \or r)$，$(p \and q) \and r \equiv p \and (q \and r)$
7. Distributive Laws: $p \or (q \and r) \equiv (p \or q) \and(p \or r)$, $p \and (q \or r) \equiv (p \and q) \or (p \and r)$
8. De Morgan's Laws: $\neg(p\or q) \equiv \neg p \and \neg q$, $\neg(p \and q) \equiv \neg p \or \neg q$
9. Absorption Laws：$p \or (p \and q) \equiv p$, $p \and (p \or q) \equiv p$
10. Negation Laws: $p \or \neg p \equiv T$, $q \and \neg p \equiv F$
11. Useful Law: $p \rightarrow q \equiv \neg p \or q$
12. Modus Ponens：$(p \and (p \rightarrow q)) \rightarrow q$
13. Modus Tollens: $(\neg q \and(p\rightarrow q)) \rightarrow \neg p$
14. Hypothetical Syllogism: $((p \rightarrow q) \and (q \rightarrow r)) \rightarrow (p \rightarrow r)$
15. Disjunctive Syllogism: $(\neg p \and (p \or q)) \rightarrow q$
16. Addition: $p \rightarrow (p \or q)$
17. Simplication: $(p \and q) \rightarrow p$
18. Conjunction: $((p) \and (q)) \rightarrow (p \and q)$
19. Resolution: $((\neg p \or r) \and (p \or q)) \rightarrow (q \or r)$
20. Universal Instantiation (UI): $\forall x P(x) \rightarrow P(c)$
21. Universal Generalization (UG): $P(c) \text{ for an arbitray } c \rightarrow \forall x P(x)$
22. Existential Instantiation (EI): $\exist x P(x) \rightarrow P(c) \text{ for some element } c$
23. Existential Generalization (EG): $P(c) \text{ for some element } c\rightarrow \exist x P(x) $





